[MUSIC]
Now that we've talked about what Sarsa is,
let's see what happens
when we actually run it.
By the end of this video,
you will understand how the Sarsa control
algorithm operates in an example MDP.
You will also gain experience analyzing
the performance of a learning algorithm.
Let's look at a Windy Gridworld.
A gridworld with a twist.
The states form a grid with a single
start state and a terminal state.
The agent can move in
the usual four directions.
The agent receives
a reward of -1 per step.
This motivates the Asian to
escape as fast as possible.
Since it's an episodic task,
the discount factor gamma is 1.
Here's where the twist comes in.
A wind blows the agent upwards
when moving out of certain states.
The wind strength in each
state depends on the column.
For example, if the agent is in
a column with wind strength one and
takes the action left,
it will move left and then up one cell.
Moving into a boundary does nothing.
Let's apply Sarsa to this task.
We will use epsilon
greedy action selection.
In this example,
we'll use an epsilon of 0.1,
alpha of 0.5 and
initialize the values to 0.
An epsilon of 0.1 means we take
a random action 1 in every 10 steps.
The initial values are optimistic
encouraging systematic exploration.
This plot shows the total number of
episodes completed after each time step.
The results are averaged
over a hundred runs.
Notice that the first few episodes take
a couple thousand steps to complete.
The curve gradually gets steeper
indicating that episodes
are completed more quickly.
Around 7,000 steps,
the greedy policy stops improving.
Notice the episode completion
rate stops increasing.
This means the agents policy hovers
around the optimal policy and
won't be exactly optimal,
because of exploration.
Notice that Monte Carlo methods
would not be a great fit here.
This is because many policies
do not lead to termination.
Monte Carlo methods only learn
when an episode terminates.
So a deterministic policy
might get trapped and
never learn a good policy
in this gridworld.
For example, if the policy took
the left action in the start state,
it would never terminate.
Sarsa avoid this trap,
because it would learn such policies or
bad during the episode.
So it's switch to another policy and
not get stuck.
In this video, we showed an example of
the Sarsa control algorithm in an MDP.
We also analyze Sarsa's performance to
better understand its learning process.